#summary The display question; do we want primarily ASCII or primarily tiles?

(Antoine:) *Are we primarily thinking ASCII or tiles?* I mean, I suppose we should support both, but which should be primary? I think the big impact is on mapsize - if tiles are primary, then the map should arguably be somewhat small; if ASCII is primary, the map can be bigger but tile users would then have to use a scrolling main window... 

(Gamer_2k4:) I'd say SDL tiles. I think Radomir volunteered to do graphics at some point, and until then, we can use bitmaps of ASCII characters. 

(Konijn) Whatever the majority says,I am more interested in the server side anyway ;)
However, follow up question : 

*scrollable maps : yes , no, later.*
Towers of Doom is a nice experience without scrolling maps.

(A.) My suggestion would be 'no' with ASCII - aim to fit the whole map on one screen - and 'yes but later' for tiles.

(C.) Does ASCII mean a 80x25 screen? Because with simple 16x16 tiles, you can display 40x30 tiles in a simple 640x480 screen which is less horizontaly, but more verticaly than text mode. If we go for non scrolling text mode, we end up with a huge waste of vertical space on tile mode later + a lot of horizontal scrolling.

(Konijn) I would start with a 25*25 screen, more in the likings of the Lost Labyrint. Less profiling will then be needed in the beginning to have a reasonable game.

(A.) That's the screensize I'm using for my in-dev game.  It works and is good for graphics but it sure is small.

(G2k4) How about 40x40?  That way you get the same amount of tiles as you would in fullscreen ascii.  Maybe the display could be 20x20, and would be centered on the player.  That leaves you 10 rows for messages and 20 columns for information (like Gearhead's display).

(A.) The more I think about it, the more I favor a 35x35 mapsize, plus a right-hand sidebar for character information and messages. With scrolling (but not the sort where the @ always stays in the middle).
That will allow ASCII on a 640x480 screen, or 16x16 tiles or ASCII on an 800x600 screen, or 32x32 tiles on a real big screen.
Perhaps allow the screensize to be user-changeable.

(C.) Or, if we have to have some cusstom tiles, we could drop the age old tradition of power of two sized tiles. Let's go for 28x28 tiles for example and it will be enouth for a standard 1280x1024 screen. And nearly enouth for a 1280x960 wide screen that you can find often on portable computers. Some tiles on the upper and lower side of the screen will have to be cut somewhat though.