#summary Build instructions.

= Windows =

Here is how I build the Windows version. First, make sure that all [Requirements] are installed of course.

  * Open a terminal and change directory into the basinrogue\cpp folder.
  * Make sure that SDLDIR, SDLIMAGEDIR, SDLMIXERDIR and SDLNETDIR point to the install path of the development versions of those libs.
    _Bug in CMake 2.4.6 : CMake might not find parts of SDL_net because of a bug in the detect script. To work around that bug, set both SDLNETDIR and SDLNET to point to the SDL_net install path_
  * Type the <cmake .> command. There should be no errors.
  * Build using NMake
  * If the above doesn't work, it's probably because you need to inform CMake on the type of secondary build environment. For example, to generate a Visual Studio 2005 project file  and build from here, you can run cmake with the -G "Visual Studio 8 2005" option. Use cmake without any other option to see the available values for that option.


= Unix or MacOS X =

  * Follow the same instructions as in Windows, but you probably do not need to set the Environment vars to point to the SDL libs install path.
    If CMake complains that it cannot find one of the SDL libs, most often it means that your Distro split appart the libSDL header files into a separate devel package. Check your distro package manager for those additional installs.


(A. Tonight or tomorrow, I'm going to have a go at building the project using Visual Studio (5.0 I think) on Windows. Will let you know if any problems. 
I suspect an important next step will be to add a small test 'dungeon' area where the players are each adventuring at their own rate and not interacting with each other, v different from the all-in-together real-time town).