#summary A discussion of the combat systems of BasinRogue.

When creating a combat engine, many things must be taken into account.  How does armor protect?  How extensive are injuries?  How is damage handled?

== Possible options for health ==
  * Generic: The player has one set of hitpoints that determine how long he'll remain alive.  
  * Realistic: Every body part has its own hitpoints.  Blows to the legs may reduce speed, blows to the chest may reduce stamina, blows to the face may reduce perception.  Every body part has a function, and harming it reduces the functionality.
  * Simplified Realistic: Again, the body consists of many parts.  When one is destroyed, body parts attached to it are also destroyed, and items on it fall.  Cutting off an arm mainly prevents the player from wielding a weapon or shield.  Cutting off a head mainly prevents the player from living.
  * Abstract realistic: Again, each body part has its own hitpoints.  However, there are significantly fewer parts.  Once one has no hitpoints remaining, the player dies (to simulate the helplessness that would occur given an amputated appendage).

(C.) I vote for the Generic system. Others are too complex for my own taste

== Possible options for armor ==
  * Generic: There is one armor rating.  All items collectively add to that rating, and it determines hit chance and damage resistance.
  * Localized: Each armor piece protects one body part.  If that part is damaged, only a single piece of armor will reduce the damage.

(C.) I think I would favor Localized here. It'll force the user to update his whole armor or risk facing very damaging hits when the monster hits the weak spot in his armor. It works with a Generic hit health system either. And it opens the way for some specific skills that allow the player/monster to aim for weak spots. We just have to make clear to the user that his armor rating isn't the sum of all armor parts but a mean value compounded by the chance of each body part being hit in normal situations.

G2k4: That's how my RPG works.  There are several places you can be hit, and only the armor on that location protects you.  However, all damage is dealt to one set of hitpoints.

== Possible damage reducers ==
  * Evade rating: The player's chance of completely avoiding damage.  This can be represented as a percentage (for every attack, a player has the same chance of dodging) or a decreasable value.  The value could be called "stamina" or something; it is reduced before hitpoints are, representing a player being able to avoid real damage, but tiring.  With this system, stamina could regenerate quickly when not in combat, but damage to hitpoints would have to have a greater effect on the player.
  * Cover rating: This is simply the chance that armor will defend against an attack.
  * Armor rating: The actual damage resistance of the armor
  * Shields: Shields could have a chance of completely negating an attack.  A "shields" skill could indicate the maximum chance, and the shield itself would indicate the minimum chance.  If the user's skill is less than the shield's rating, it cannot be used.  Let's say the user has a skill of 80 and the shield has a rating of 30.  If the player is attacked with 55 accuracy (a number, not a percent), he has a 50% chance of avoiding the damage totally (rolling a 55 or higher on a roll from 30 to 80).
  * Kinetic vs Energy damage: Magic may bypass armor completely, and magical shields may be useless against physical attacks.

(C.) There is another important factor that you haven't talked about: an attack that fails doesn't hit you. Does the attacker has a tohit roll to make against your AC ( D&D style ) or do you assume that all attacks always hit? Or something else.

G2k4: If I wanted to hit someone, I can't imagine missing unless they blocked me or moved out of the way.  I think it's safe to say that all attacks would hit (well, they'd need to pass the ER first).

== Damage Types ==
  * Pierce, Slash, Crush
  * Energy/Magic
  * Heat, Cold, etc.

== Conditional effects ==
  * Bleeding options
    * reduces hitpoints each turn
    * has little effect on the player, but it a countdown to the number of turns when he will automatically die
    * decreases stats slowly (reducing Toughness would reduce maximum HP, until the maximum is zero)
  * Poison
    * Same as hitpoints, maybe intensified or slowed by eating, drinking, etc.
    * Requires special treatment to cure (treatment might be as simple as drinking 3 potions of water to dilute it, or as complex as finding an elder healer and supplying him with certain herbs)
  * Pain
    * Effect varies based on intensity
    * Might decrease effectiveness of actions
    * Might cause unconsciousness
    * Caused by other injuries or spells; remove the source and the effect is removed as well
  * Fear
    * Simply prevent attacking
    * Cause the player to move away from the source each turn
    * Simply decrease combat attributes