#summary Miscellaneous ideas for making the game cool.

(Gamer2k4:) Interface is key. That's been the topic of discussion recently in r.g.r.d and it's a good thing to think about. How can we make our game as user-friendly as possible? 

It would be cool if items could be enhanced with monster souls. For example, infusing a helmet with a dragon soul might grant firebreathing, infusing body armor with a dragon soul might grant fire resistance, and infusing a cloak with a dragon soul might grant flying. 
(Christophe:) There is a similar system in Ragnarok Online. Each monster can drop it's card when killed, and such card can be used to upgrade weapons and armors to get a specific bonus. Some of them are nearly useless, some are considered fundamental must-have items. Only common weapons and armors can be enhanced in such ways to keep some balance. 

Monsters with enough experience should change (young dragon to mature dragon) and some monsters should be able to merge with others (water elemental + shock elemental -> storm elemental) 

On that note, spells should be combinable. The player should only be able to learn a small amount of spells, and combining these would unlock more powerful spells. Also, spells should have a level, and there should be a different failure message for a non-existent spell and one that's too advanced. 
Fusion: levitation + fire bolt -> nothing (non-existent) "Nothing happens." 
Fusion: air aura + water aura -> water breathing "The spell fizzles." 
Fusion: strike + flame aura -> fist of flame "Your hand starts glowing!" 
