#summary Discussion of item management

Many methods have been used to represent the storing of items.  Ideally, one should be used that allows the player to access his items quickly and efficiently.

==Inventory Models==
  * Generic: There are commands to equip and remove items.  Equipping brings up the pack view and allows the player to select an item.  The item is removed from the pack and placed in the equipment.  Removing brings up the worn items view and allows the player to select an item.  The item is removed from the player and returned to the pack.
  * ADOM: There are no commands to remove and wear items.  Instead, there is an command that brings up the worn items screen.  The player selects which slot he wants to change; if there is a item, it is removed, if not, the pack contents screen is displayed, and the user selects the item he wants to wear.
  * Contained: Every sort of item manipulation occurs from one screen.  That screen displays all of the items the player as, along with an <equipped> tag for the ones he is wearing.  An item is selected, then a command like use, equip, drop, etc. is given.

(A.) I liked the ADOM model myself. Same as used in DoomRL, yes?

<Greg> Were there any thoughts on how many items could be equipped, and how many different types of items there are? I see the word MUD being tossed about, and I've played in MUDs where a character could equip maybe thirty different pieces of equipment; on the other hand, Angband has maybe 8 or 10 equip slots, if I recall correctly.

(A.) I'd had in mind an Angband-like configuration, but then I come from an Angband background. Open to suggestions. It does take a lot of time to design many different types of items.

G2k4: I can take care of item design.  Anyway, why not keep this simple? Headgear, body armor, leg armor, gloves, boots, amulet, weapon, free hand...er, maybe that wasn't so simple.  But I don't think we need things like belts, or bracers, or other "smaller" armor.