#summary Two big issues.

Do we want permadeath? MUDs don't have it and Mangband doesn't have it. But I think we should have it. What do you guys think?
  * G2k4: Permadeath is good, IMO.  My vision of this was always something like the online version of Nethack, only unique objects are shared.
  * Konijn: Yes!

Do we want to have a victory condition (e.g. kill Morgoth) after which your character gets retired? Or do we want to have a more MUD-like scenario where your characters just hang round forever getting tougher and doing minor quests along the way?
  * G2k4: How about we have an initial boss monster, then every player who kills it becomes the new boss monster?  The contents of his house would be regenerated throughout the dungeon, his high score would be saved, and the new monster would have all of his stats and equipment.
  * Konijn: I was thinking amulet of Yendor but with a set of armor, so that multiple people can find pieces. Then ( as with powerful items in Elder Scrolls ) every few weeks the pieces go wandering so other people can find them. Finding a piece would be the same effort as finding the amulet of Yendor.
    * G2k4: So separate bosses? Maybe a different boss for each class?  A set of equipment, worn by the legendary adventurer before he was consumed by the darkness?  Yes...I think I can make a story out of this.
      * Konijn: Actually I was thinking that that was the set of the Evil Guy, with one piece in the town. If the monsters ever get to all the pieces, Evil cannot be defeated any more. Cue town battles like in BattleOn...

==Story idea==
Long ago, the Gods created the world and its environment.  To populate it, they formed the Demigods, the fathers of races.  Each created their own type of creatures - Queshal formed the fish and whales, Levalya grew the dryads, nymphs, and woodfolk, Guroth created the beasts, Intri made the birds, and Lumis formed the Sons of Light: Humans, Elves, Dwarves, and similar folk.  But not all was good in the world.  The demigod Shardroth forsook his duties, and retreated to the depths of the earth to forge an army of evil.  Shadow and Corruption overcame what was once good, and the races of darkness threatened the inhabitants of this new world.  But the Gods selected a great hero and fitted him with divine armor.  As long as he wore the armor, the hero was unstoppable.  He led the free people in their conquest of the evil.  Finally, the enemies were beaten back into their dark caverns.  An outpost was built near the entrance of the rift to prevent the fiends from invading the land once more.  The hero gave the inhabitants his shield, to protect the outpost.  He then ventured deep into the earth to defeat evil once and for all.  Far below the surface, the hero met the source of all the evil.  In the confrontation that followed, Shardroth was defeated.  As he died, massive amounts of dark energies were released, corrupting all it touched.  The hero, with his incomplete armor, immediately succumbed to the evil.  His armor was corrupted and lost, and his soul was changed forever.  The fallen hero knew that with his armor in its entirety, he would be unstoppable.  The creatures that he once slew were now tools of his will.  Their goal: breach the outpost and recover the shield.  However, the fallen hero underestimated the power of the shield, and his first attack wave was defeated.  The commanders of the outpost, now aware of the threat, called together their best warriors to seek out the lost armor and remove the fallen hero's source of power.

The demigod names are taken from my RPG.  The rest was spur of the moment stuff.  How is it? - Gamer_2k4

(A.) A bit melodramatic! Any chance of something a little more frivolous? 

G2k4:  The happy candy cane gnomes spread lollipops around the chocolate factory! Everyone needs to find one for themselves! ;) Yeah, I'll rework it, unless the others like the story.  I guess I just like deep plots.  And this explains perfectly why there's a big baddie, why he has to be killed multiple times, and why the rewards keep returning to the dungeon.  Oh yeah, and why there's a town right above the dungeon.  And how people know about him and why several adventurers go at once.  I'm not sure how I can incorporate that into a "lighter" story without oversimplifying it.